add key terms page (#4873)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/sentry-basics/key-terms.mdx

---
title: Key Terms
sidebar_order: 05
description: "Learn about the key concepts and features of Sentry."
---

The key terms and concepts defined on this page are the fundamentals of Sentry. While we define new terms as you come across them throughout our documentation, having an understanding of the key concepts and features here will make it easier to learn more complex ideas about the product.

This list is ordered so that each definition builds on the previous ones.

## Key Concepts

> Some of the following key concepts have corresponding features of the same name listed in the [Key Features](#key-features) section.

Author: ```suggestion
Some of the following key concepts have corresponding features of the same name listed (in upper case) in the [Key Features](#key-features) section.
```

> - **Sentry SDK** - Sentry's software development kit. SDKs are programming language/framework-specific. When you instrument your application with one of our SDKs, _event_ data from your application is captured, or sent to Sentry, so we can provide you with error and transaction information about your software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Sentry SDK** - Sentry's software development kit. SDKs are programming language/framework-specific. When you instrument your application with one of our SDKs, _event_ data from your application is captured and sent to Sentry, so we can provide you with error and performance reports.
```

Just some small wordsmithing suggestions. I'll admit that I also struggle a bit with using "software development kit" as the fundamental definition. OTOH, yes, obviously, that's literally what the acronym stands for. OTOH, it's only a helpful definition if "software development kit" holds more meaning for people than "SDK," and my guess is that it's actually the other way around (IOW, my sense is that of the two, "SDK" is the more widely known term). So you might consider something like this:

```suggestion
- **Sentry SDKs** - Sentry's programming language/framework-specific libraries for application monitoring. When you instrument your application with one of our SDKs, _event_ data from your application is captured and sent to Sentry, so we can provide you with error and performance reports.
```

Finally, I wonder if there's anyone who doesn't know what an SDK is but does know what it means to "instrument" code. (I'd guess not.) So maybe:

```suggestion
- **Sentry SDKs** - Sentry's programming language/framework-specific libraries for application monitoring. When you add one of our SDKs to your application, _event_ data from your application is captured and sent to Sentry, so we can provide you with error and performance reports.
```

Author: It hurts my tech writer soul to not define an abbreviation, but your point makes sense. And for some reason I thought we used the term "instrument" in this context in the docs, but having searched, I don't see it anywhere, so this works for me.

> - **sentry.io** - Sentry's user interface, where event data captured by our SDK is visualized.

Reviewer 2: Chance to rep self-hosted here:

```suggestion
- **sentry.io** - Sentry's user interface for SaaS customers, where event data captured by our SDK is visualized (for self-hosted users the user interface is on an internal domain for your company).
```

- **Releases** - Provides a high-level view of each release version, the associated project, the adoption stage of each release, the authors of each commit, the percentage of crash-free users, and the percentage of crash-free sessions. Learn more in the full [Releases documentation](/product/releases/).

- **Release Health** - Provides insight into the impact of crashes and bugs as it relates to your user's experience and reveals trends with each new issue. You can navigate to release health data either from the **Issue Details** page, by selecting release ID listed under "Last Seen", or by going to the **Releases** page. Learn more in the full [Release Health documentation](/product/releases/health/).

- **Alerts** - Where you can create new alert rules and manage existing ones. Learn more in the full [Alerts documentation](/product/alerts/).

> - **Discover** - Provides visibility into your errors and transactions information across environments by allowing you to query events and unlock insights into the health of your entire system. The **Discover** page visuzalizes the results of queries. Learn more in the full [Discover documentation](/product/discover-queries/).

Author: ```suggestion
- **Discover** - Allows you to query events across environments, providing you with visibility into your errors and transactions and unlocking insights into the health of your entire system. The **Discover** page visualizes the results of queries. Learn more in the full [Discover documentation](/product/discover-queries/).
```

> - **Dashboards** - Provide you with a broad overview of your application’s health by allowing you to navigate through error and performance data across multiple projects. Dashboards are made up of one or more widgets, and each widget visualizes one or more **Discover** queries. Learn more in the full [Dashboards documentation](/product/dashboards/).

Reviewer 3: We also have support for querying Issues data, which is different from Discover queries. We don't have a big blurb on it, just this little part here
https://docs.sentry.io/product/dashboards/custom-dashboards/#data-set-selection

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Dashboards** - Provide you with a broad overview of your application’s health by allowing you to navigate through error and performance data across multiple projects. Dashboards are made up of one or more widgets, and each widget visualizes one or more **Discover**/**Issues** queries. Learn more in the full [Dashboards documentation](/product/dashboards/).
```

@edwardgou-sentry is making improvements to our Data Set Selection docs in #4905 so hopefully the differences become more clear

Author: Makes sense. I've just replaced the / with the word "or" instead.

> - **Dashboards** - Provide you with a broad overview of your application’s health by allowing you to navigate through error and performance data across multiple projects. Dashboards are made up of one or more widgets, and each widget visualizes one or more **Discover** queries. Learn more in the full [Dashboards documentation](/product/dashboards/).

Author: ```suggestion
- **Dashboards** - Provide you with a broad overview of your application’s health by allowing you to navigate through error and performance data across multiple projects. Dashboards are made up of one or more widgets, and each widget visualizes one or more **Discover** or **Issues** queries. Learn more in the full [Dashboards documentation](/product/dashboards/).
```
